The world is run on a lot of secrets. If you're pre-cognitive, you could also get information about things you're not supposed to know about. Our intelligence agencies have continued to work with remote viewers. Remote viewers are gifted enough to get that classified information without clearance. We do experiments in the lab to show that statistically significantly over and over again you could show precognition is a real effect. It's really hard to say that any particular case wasn't just a coincidence. \>\> Dr. Julia Mossbridge. She is the human potential research lead for the telepathy tapes. She's a cognitive neuroscientist. She studies exceptional human performance including side effects, precognition, presentiment. I have trained people to be excellent pre-cognitive remote viewers who did not believe in it at all. There were thousands of premonitions about 9/11 that are really compelling. Some of them saved their life. How do you teach someone to be a remote viewer? \[Music\] \>\> Hi, I'm Ballik. \>\> I'm Jonathan Cohen. \>\> Welcome to our breakdown. \>\> Let's explore time. \>\> What is time? \>\> This conversation was fascinating because our guest today is going to explain the future is actually sending information back to us. Can we all see the future? If you've ever thought about a dream you had, a feeling you had, and then you felt like it came true, components of it came true. Our guest today literally scientifically studies information from what we perceive as the future as well as information from our perceived past and how they can all coalesce and make up a variety of phenomena that in many cases we just haven't been trained to tap into. Julia is also going to describe to us a very specific practice of how each of us can increase our ability to remember our dreams. She describes how self-compassion for your past self and your future self can actually increase your intuitive ability. She explains precognitive awareness where you can have dreams and visions of the future. And in case you're wondering where a conversation about seeing the future could go, yes, it goes there. It goes into if people can remote view into the future, can they predict tragedies from happening? She's going to share her own personal experience of foreseeing tragedies that literally occurred. She talks about the different tools that we can use to try and firm up our belief in understanding what is happening in places other than where our physical body is and in places other than where our timestamp is. We talk about how the government has used these tools, how CIA agencies continue to use these tools. And while those things can be used for nefarious reasons, there's also a way to utilize these things from a really mind-blowing mystical and transcendental perspective of are we on, as she calls it, the wrong side of the quilt when we examine our existence. And very practically speaking, when we talk about these mystical abilities and intuition and seeing into the future, can we use these to guide our own lives to find a better relationship, to find a job that more aptly fits our skill set that will likely make us happier? And how do we navigate the world through more intuitive senses? \>\> Who can answer all of these questions and more? Dr. Julia Mossbridge. She's a cognitive neuroscientist and she studies exceptional human performance including side effects, precognition, uh, presentiment. She's a senior distinguished fellow in human potential at the center for the future mind at Florida Atlantic University and she is the human potential research lead for the telepathy tapes. So she is literally part of the team that is researching is there a way to quantify once we've qualified how do we quantify special abilities and as Dr. Mossbridge is going to talk about. She doesn't even think of these things as special abilities. She thinks of them as abilities that we all are born with. We just haven't been taught how to listen to and how to refine. \>\> And if this doesn't seem like enough to capture your interest, stick around to the end of the conversation where Julia describes what happens when we die. \>\> It's such a pleasure to welcome to the breakdown Dr. Julia Mossbridge. \>\> Break it down. Maybe you can start by defining for us uh precognition and how that's distinguished from premonition or if you use them interchangeably. \>\> So precognition is the scientific term scientific term for receiving information about a future event through means that are other than normal sensory means or actually causing the event. Right? So, some examples of what precognition is not. Precognition is not having a dream about buying a new rug that's purple and then going to the store and getting a new rug that's purple and being like, "Oh my gosh, I pre-cognized this." And like, well, also, you could have caused that because you had that dream, remember? So, that's one. Um, another thing precognition is not is dealing with um unconscious information that you then infer from. So like, uh, oh, it's Thursday. I woke up and I just had this feeling my mom would call. Well, you haven't noticed that your mom calls every Thursday, but she does. So, you're not precognizing it. You're actually using unconscious information like everyone does to try to predict future events. That's not the same thing. And then the other thing that it's not is getting information about a future event and having to be conscious of it or non-concious. Let me say say this another way. Precognition can be conscious or unconscious. In other words, you can get information about a future event and you don't know you're getting it, but you use that information. Like today, I'm just going to run and I'm going to go for this run on this particular route. and it just so happens that your route avoided a tree that fell and killed another runner or something like that. That's that could still be precognition in the sense that you may have gotten information about the future. It could have just been coincidence, but it could be precognition. You got the information about the future. You avoided that place, but you weren't conscious of it. So, in other words, I guess what I'm saying is precognition does not have to be conscious. In fact, it's often unconscious. Premonition is um usually associated with negative events. Very few few people will say I had a premonition that I'm going that I'm going to win the lottery. Right? I have a premonition I'm going to win the lottery. Some people will usually um premonition comes from the term pre before and mon the root words which means to warn. So it's really associated with something that you're warning you're being warned about. So something negative. So that's one difference whereas precognition is neutral in the veilance but also premonition is a folk term. It's less of a scientific term. So you it's very hard to study premonitions because they're by definition spontaneous. They just occur. I had this premonition. It occurred to me in my sleep. It occurred to me upon waking. It occurred to me as I was falling asleep. It occurred to me when I was doing dishes. Um they just occur and they are sort of they're necessarily conscious. Whereas precognition is a name for all of the things including premonitions. It's an umbrella term for this information that comes either consciously or unconsciously in ways that are not normal sensory means, not normal memory means and not through unconscious or conscious inference and not through being caused. And so that's the relationship. So precognition is the scientific umbrella term. Premonition is one of the of the sort of items under the umbrella. Prophecy is another item under the umbrella. \>\> I wonder if we could just step back for a second and set the table for this conversation. You're a scientist and you believe in things that the lay person may have heard about but doesn't fully understand. And some of those things, if I'm okay to paraphrase here, is that the future is knowable. that the amount of senses that we have our our general senses could be expanded upon. What else do you believe in sort of the simplest terms that the lay person may be very curious about or not fully understand? \>\> You know, I'm trying to get out of my academic mind um because my academic mind wants to fight with this idea that the future is knowable because I'm not sure I believe that entirely. I'm not sure I believe entirely that our senses can be expanded. Um because you could call this kind of sense that I'm talking about with which people sense the future, you could call it one of our existing senses that we just don't well understand. So let me go to an even higher level and say my basic understanding and it's hardly a belief. It's really based on fact is that we don't understand how time works and that we think we do. And that's how I would set the table for this conversation is that we don't understand how time works. By we, I mean like everyone on the planet, no one understands how time works. And we think we do, meaning everyone on the planet has their opinion about how time works. And oftentimes it's this idea that the future is this vast unknowable space. The past you can't go back to or really see anymore. It's gone. Each each moment it's gone. It's gone. It's gone. Every time we're in a new now, it's gone. And that you can't affect the past from the future. Those are things that many people in the world believe to be true about time, but we don't really know. And there's lots of indications in physics and in psychology and neuroscience that we really really don't know. And there's a lot of wiggle room in all of those things I just said that we think we know. That's that's how I would set the table. \>\> MB Alex breakdown is supported by Calm. \>\> Ever feel like your mind is running in a dozen directions at once? When your thoughts are scattered, even the smallest decisions can feel overwhelming. But just 5 minutes a day with Calm can help you slow down, clear your head, and make choices with more confidence. Calm helps me with the big three: anxiety, stress, and sleep. Their meditations help me untangle the day's chaos in my brain. And Breath has a direct link to anxiety. I feel more at ease and in my body after easy and helpful breathing exercises. Calm's the number one app for sleep and meditation, giving you the power to calm your mind and change your life. Everyone faces unique challenges in their daily lives. That's why Calm offers a wide range of content and programs to help you navigate life's ups and downs, including guided meditations to help you work through anxiety and stress, boost your focus, build healthier habits, and take better care of your physical well-being. Sleep stories, sleep meditations, and calming music to help you drift off to restful sleep quickly and naturally, grounding exercises to help you reset and relax when you're feeling overwhelmed. Expertled talks to help you handle grief, improve self-esteem, improve relationships, and more. The COM app puts the tools you need right in your pocket, so stress and anxiety relief is always within reach. COM has over 2 million five-star reviews and can help you stress less, sleep more, and live better. Comm has an exclusive offer just for listeners of our show. Get 40% off a COM premium subscription at comm.com/break. This is an amazing value. Go to calm.com/break for 40% off unlimited access to comm's entire library. com comm.com/break. \>\> Tell you heard about them from us. My MBL breakdown is supported by Element. \>\> Element helps all of us stay hydrated without sugar and dodgy ingredients that are found in so many popular electrolyte and sports drinks. Electrolyte deficiency or imbalance can cause so many things you may not have realized was caused by that headaches, cramps, fatigue, brain fog, weakness. Element is a zero sugar electrolyte drink mix born from the growing body of research revealing that optimal health outcomes occur at sodium levels two to three times government recommendations. Each stick pack delivers a meaningful dose of electrolytes with no sugar, artificial colors, no dodgy ingredients, elements formulated for anyone on a mission to restore health through hydration. It's perfectly suited for athletes, folks who are fasting, those following keto, low carb, whole food or paleo diets. From health experts, everyone from famed Stanford neuroscientists to functional nutritionists to moms, exercise enthusiasts, heavy sweaters, sauna sitters, those who want a dynamite no sugar margarita or mocktail. All those types incorporate element into their daily routine. Summer activities like hiking, beach days, or workouts in the summer can really drain your electrolytes. I can feel the electrolyte loss in my body. I feel more fatigue. Muscle cramps, headaches. Element is a quick and easy way to alleviate these symptoms by adding electrolytes right into your body. Squeeze the most out of summer with Element's new limited time lemonade salt. Salty, tart, and refreshing brings you the best of summer wherever you are. Get yours while supplies last. Get a free 8count sample pack of Element's most popular drink mix flavors with any purchase at drinkelement.com/mmy. Find your favorite Element flavor or share with a friend. The 8count consists of two citrus salt, two watermelon salt, two orange salt, two raspberry salt. Try Element totally risk-free. If you don't like it, we'll refund your order. No questions asked. Again, for your free element sample pack, go to drinkelement.com/mayim. That's drinkelement.com/mmy. \[Music\] Can anyone learn how to use their bodies as a tool? Yeah, I mean I think if you could learn anything if you're a person who has the capacity to learn and some people um you know don't because they're stuck with bodies that can't can't learn things. Um most people can. \>\> What does it mean to use your body as a tool here? Well, if the body if physical reality is not primary, so I include in physical reality like electromagnetic waves, all the stuff we were just talking about in the Manowski space-time block world thing. If physical reality is not primary, if what's prim primary comes underneath that and by underneath that I mean is supportive to physical reality kind of provides the blueprint for physical reality but isn't the same as physical reality then the thing that's supporting it is sort of can be called consciousness with a capital C can be called information like anformational substrate sometimes I call it pervasive universal consciousness sometimes um you could think of it as the breath of God uh has been called that or simsum the contraction of god so that so that physical things can exist um but it comes first it's foundational it's the root of matter it's the root of the physical things so therefore the body is growing up out of that like the body is the tree that comes out of the seed and so then what what good is the tree if the purpose of the seed is to creates the tree. What good is the tree? Well, the the tree ends up producing more seeds. But also, the tree has all these other purposes. It interacts with the wind, right? It interacts with the soil. It changes the the world just by existing. Even if it doesn't have any acorns. I'm thinking of an oak tree here, but whatever. It's my favorite kind of tree. But even if it doesn't have any seeds that it produces, right? So it's a tool of thisformational substrate or the pervasive universal consciousness or the breath of God. It's a tool to make change. \>\> And in this metaphor when you're talking about a universal consciousness, you know, I think back to our conversation with Thomas Campbell who talks about the larger consciousness system. My understanding of it is that you're trying to access more information outside of your ego to be have more grace, have more synchronicity, have more opportunity. How do you imagine it? \>\> I imagine it that it goes in in uh developmental stages. So if you if you uh if you read about like the process of psychological self-development like in self-c psychology or it used to be called ego development although they changed that because it wasn't really about the ego as much as everything the whole psyche I think at first you can get into it because you're like oo I'm going to have more opportunities I'm going to more go with the flow it's going to bring me more joy maybe I'll find a partner you know these things that we want a in uh in cobalistic uh mysticism there's talk about the lesser harrah and the greater harra is like energy and the lesser harrah are things that you need you need the energy that says I want to find a partner I want to build a house I want to do well in my career because in order to survive and and really get to the next to to use the greater harrah you need those things the greater harrah is about self-trcendence And I think that's sort of what happens is people get hooked onto the lesser harrah like if I do this I'm going to you know help my career and you probably will help your career and then you get to this point of oh it feels really good to me to let go of these sort of immediate my individual life needs and realize that I can use this as a tool to support my community to support the world to join in something that's larger than me and let that energy and information flow through me to access what I would call the unconditional universal love as a as an energy that feeds this self-trcendence or the actions that are self-trcendent. How can I help make the world a better place? And it will, of course, that will also have an impact on your family and on your house and on your career. Sometimes the impact is negative, sometimes it's positive. But there's this Abraham Maslo talked about the hierarchy of deeds that just before he died in 1969, he wrote about the need that he forgot to list, which is the need for self-trcendence to join in something larger than ourselves that's positive moves towards a goal that is beyond ourselves. And it's not just a need. It's it's a very active force that can reach down to anyone who's even struggling with the, you know, having enough food or feeling safe in their environment. Can reach down in that hierarchy of needs and pull them up. So it has a special status. It's both a need and an and an active force. And so that's how I think it works. You talk in this book about the the sort of conditions that need to be in place for someone to be open to let's say precognition, right? To be open to uh having these experiences. Um and you you list three things that are needed and one is an openness to experience. The other the second is extraversion and the third is belief in precognition. So can you talk a little bit about the conditions of who are the people who are more likely to be able to tap into this and what what is it like to develop these aspects of you if these are the things that are needed? \>\> Okay. Yeah. And just some clarification, that result about openness to experience, extraversion, and belief was a scientific result that came from um multiple studies of people reporting um I have \>\> the study is basically like who the heck are the kind of people who think that their dreams are coming true. \>\> Right. Exactly. \>\> What do they have in common? \>\> Right. And so there's fewer and there's some studies where they actually test people's precognitive ability and they rank them according to those things. So this does not mean that if you're not extroverted like I'm an introvert. This does not mean if you're not extroverted you can't do precognition. It doesn't mean if you don't believe it you can't do it. And it doesn't mean if you're not open to experience you can't do it. Just means that on average those are the folks who either say which the extroversion thing like of course right either sorry introvert joke but um say or actually are uh that they experience precognition or actually are precogni