If what you're saying is true, then I mean this is a revelation. Yeah. And I I couldn't speak about it until now that it's possible to communicate with someone that's passed away. And I'm saying it from the point of view of being a neuroscientist and a psychiatrist. And it's taboo because we are afraid that people will think we're going insane. I mean, I've been part of teams that have locked people up and had them injected with stuff against their will because of things they were saying that's not that dissimilar to things I've experienced. I wanted to find out as much science as I could to try to back it up. And do you think you found the answer? Yeah. How sure are you? 100%. And the things I found out are going to shock you. The floor is yours. Okay. So, I'm Dr. Tara Wart. I'm a neuroscientist and a medical doctor who specialized in psychiatry. And I lost my beloved husband to leukemia almost 4 years ago, 2 days before our fourth wedding anniversary. And that everything I believed in had gone wrong. I was just totally lost and broken. But then I started getting signs from my husband. And in my desperation, I did consult a couple of mediums. But not being impressed by them, I ended up thinking if it's possible to communicate with someone that's passed away. And I am all about optimizing my brain, then I should be able to do it myself. So I went down a rabbit hole. And what I've uncovered in this research is going to have a really beneficial effect on a lot of people. Why? because it means that we are capable of so much more than what we think the human mind is capable of. So listen, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to try and ask the questions and challenge you in ways that I think the viewer might challenge you. I want you to ask me those questions. I see messages all the time in the comments section that some of you didn't realize you didn't subscribe. So, if you could do me a favor and double check if you're a subscriber to this channel, that would be tremendously appreciated. It's the simple, it's the free thing that anybody that watches this show frequently can do to help us here to keep everything going in this show in the trajectory it's on. So, please do double check if you've subscribed and uh thank you so much because in a strange way you are you're part of our history and you're on this journey with us and I appreciate you for that. So, yeah, thank you Dr. Tara Swart. Good to see you again. You too. Thank you for coming back. You were our most viewed guest on the show of all time. Our last conversation did just over 20 million views and downloads, which is pretty staggering. But you're back to talk about something entirely different this time, which is this idea of science, which kind of intertwines with all of your work on neuroscience that you've done throughout your career. My first question to you is, what is it that you think you know that the vast majority of people don't quite understand, comprehend, or have accepted yet? and take me right back to the sort of first principles of that thinking. I believe that we are capable of so much more than what we think the human mind is capable of now. And I believe that the brain actually filters down the capability of the mind so that we can exist on this material plane. And things that I found out doing research for the signs is going to shock you. The abilities that we have that we're not aware of are way beyond what you might even imagine right now. In what departments and facets of my life? Let's just start with something really simple. How many senses do you think we have? Five. I can smell. I can touch. Um I can hear. I can see. Um is it five that? Yeah, five. Is it five? Have you heard of a six sense? Being able to see ghosts and stuff. Okay. So I think most people would agree that we have five senses and some people would say isn't there something like a six sense and I don't think it's agreed what that might be. So I actually did a literature review of several pieces of research about how many senses humans have and we actually have 34 as we currently understand it. 34. And so what does this mean? Like what is the because you're making an assertion here. What is the assertion that you're making and what does that mean for the material sort of consequences of my life? I'm making a hypothesis based on both the analogy of the observable universe and the fact that we have this expanded suite of senses to challenge you to understand that you are capable of much more than you think you are. And you know, you're a really good case in point for me because you love rationality and data and science and you don't really love intuition and the, you know, the unknown, the unseen. So, you know, I think if I can convince you of anything by the end of this podcast, then the impact that that could have on society, I think is huge. I mean, the things I found out are going to shock you. What do you mean by that? I, as you know, was a was a psychiatrist in the past. So I'm able to diagnose people and say whether they have a mental illness or not. In the past four years, I've been keeping a secret. And there were times in that four years that I had to ask myself if I was in clinical depression, if I was psychotic, if I was manic, if the way that my consciousness was expanding. I mean, Steve, I've I've been part of teams that have locked people up and put, you know, had them injected with stuff against their will because of things they were saying that's not that dissimilar to things I've experienced in the last four years. So, I guess we better get into the secret because I sat here with you almost two years ago now and we had a fantastic conversation, but there was something you didn't tell my audience when we had that conversation that re reached more than 20 million people. There was something at that moment in time that you didn't tell me, which was this secret you've been keeping. What is the secret, Tara? Um, I lost my beloved husband to leukemia almost four years ago and I've written this book which mentions my personal story. So, and I trust you. So, I really wanted to come back on the podcast and just explain a little bit to people about what's been going on for me for the last four years. So your husband Robin, you met him 2016 and he passed he passed away from leukemia in 2021. 2021. Now from 2021 when he passed away, what what happened in your life? What was going on in your world? If I was a fly on the wall in your context, what would I have seen? He'd been given two weeks to live, but he actually lived for three and a half weeks. and he died two days before our fourth wedding anniversary. So, I was literally reading condolence cards on my fourth wedding anniversary. If it wasn't for the people that I have around me who became like a fortress, I don't think I would be here today. You know, never having had that experience before, it was just so so devastating. Um, and even though I'm a neuroscientist and a psychiatrist, I just I just was like like totally lost and broken. And then I started seeing robins in the garden every single time I went to the window, both in Hampshire and London. I've never ever seen so many robins in my life. Like not before or since. I still see them sometimes. But I noticed it. I thought, of course, that's what I want to see. I have no idea what it means, if anything. Um, and then about 6 weeks after he passed away, I was asleep and I heard a noise in the distance and we had been burgled once, so I went to check it wasn't the alarm in the garages. Couldn't work out what it was. Thought maybe it was birds in the distance. Went back to sleep. It was about 4:00 a.m. and then I got woken up by a massive thump to my shoulder. I wouldn't demonstrate it on you because it would be too much for me to hit you that hard. It wasn't like a tap. So, I opened my eyes and I could see next to my bed a very vague hazy version of Robin as if he was pushing himself through trial to be seen. And I was just transfixed. And I saw him become more and more clear. I could see the outline of his hair and his face. And then suddenly he just dissolved from the top down. And my eyes went like this. And I remember seeing his shins and his feet. And I was like up on my elbow watching. And I I just gasped out loud. In my desperation, I did consult a couple of mediums. And again, I had that dual conversation. I said to myself, this is the kind of thing that crazy, desperate people do. And within the same breath, it's okay for me to be crazy and desperate right now. I've lost my best friend, my life partner. Like my everything I thought about how the world worked has crashed around me. And I ended up think, you know, being not being impressed by the mediums. and just at some point, I can't even remember when now thinking if it's possible to communicate with someone that's passed away and he was my husband and my best friend and I am all about optimizing my brain and expanding my consciousness, then I should be able to do it myself. That's that's the start of my journey that I've written about in science. And do you think you found the answer? Yeah. How sure are you? 100%. I mean, if if if what you're saying is true, then that's a pretty I mean, that's a revelation, right? So many people have lost lost people or um have gone through different types of loss in their life. And you're telling me that through the work you've done over the last couple of years and the research you've done, you understand how to communicate with them in some capacity. Mhm. And you're 100% sure. 100%. So, listen. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to I'm going to I'm going to I'm going to challenge you in ways that I think um the viewer might challenge you sat at home. So I'm going to try and ask the questions that the viewer might ask because there's you know people the this idea is quite a significant perspective shifting one. So my job in this conversation although these are sensitive matter matters of course is just to try and play devil's advocate where I can and I just I want to say that you know you know me and you know that you've asked me to come back on the podcast several times and I've come when I'm ready so I want you to ask me those questions. Yeah. So where does this journey begin then? So this you suffer this tragic loss in your life. You go to the mediums you're let down by them. Where does this begin? Where does your research your your journey of discovery begin? It starts with this decision to um you know try to communicate with him myself. There's a realization at some point that it's not a one-way thing that when people pass away they also have to learn. So it's it's it's like two people having to learn a language to speak to each other. Like two people who speak a different language having to learn a language that they can both speak. That's that's how it felt. Obviously, as a scientist, I then wanted to find out as much science as I could to to try to back it up, which really comes down to the science of whether the mind or the psyche or the soul can exist separately from the body. And I will say that way before I even started thinking about this stuff, just the the moment that he died, which he died in front of me, once he'd actually passed away, I remember a really strong feeling of looking at his body and just knowing that wasn't him. and the the essence of who he was. I didn't know where it was, but it was not there lying in that bed. And when did you realize that you were going to start to collect research and do research on this idea of being able to communicate in ways that most people don't realize we can communicate through science. And also when you talk about being able to communicate through these 30 plus senses, is that just with the dead or is that with each other? like can I communicate through you know is there other ways that I can tap into these senses that you've discovered through your research that will help me be more effective with the living too. I mean I think it starts with yourself. So I think that the fact that if you're not even aware that you've got 34 senses then you're obviously not consciously tapping into something that you're not aware of and and some of them are non-concious senses anyway. Um things like the pH of your blood or like the balance of oxygen and carbon dioxide in your blood. you're, you know, you're not going to be conscious of those. You can't necessarily exert much control over them. Although, obviously, if you slow down your breathing or you do a certain type of breath work, it it could have an impact on those things. The conclusion that I came to, so like I said, I went to the brink a few times. I went to the brink. Let me give you the first example. I realized that the first anniversary was coming up on October 26th. And around, you know, a couple of months before that, I was doing the best that I had been doing. so far. But I was very aware this anniversary was coming and I wanted to prepare myself mentally. But from the 4th of October, I suddenly like was in aches and pains all over my body, which actually lasted for six or seven weeks and was accompanied by me feeling so depressed that I actually had to look in the mirror and like go through the criteria for clinical depression and work out if I was actually depressed or not. Um, and I didn't meet all the criteria, but I was in this physical pain. I could not understand why. I went for a massage. It was so painful. I didn't go again for a year. So, eventually I looked through my um diary on calendar on my phone. And I looked back to October 4th, which was the day that it started, and that was the day that I had taken him home to die. That was the day I took him home from hospital. I didn't remember that date, but clearly my body had and the trauma was just reemerging as like physical pain. Um, and I only realized quite a lot later that I had to to do some sematic work to actually get rid of the last bits of trauma that um, talking therapy can't actually get to seatic work. So, body body work, whether that's massage or uh, dance or art or craniosacral therapy or taichi, you know, like anything physical. because basically there's an area in the brain, it's actually inside. So I can't really show it to you on this, but it's kind of inside there. And that part of the brain is to do with articulating speech and it basically gets shut down by trauma. So those sort of phrases like I'm speechless or I'm dumbfounded or I have no words indicates the fact that there may be residual trauma that's held in your body that you can't actually articulate and get out and solve through talking therapy. So, it requires some kind of physical therapy. So, that was obviously to do with my um sense of pain. And it took me a little while to kind of put together what that might mean by really like tapping into why was my body um manifesting pain to to sort of remind me of something or show me something. But also in the first couple of weeks after um Robin's body Robin's body was taken away the morning after he died and it was uh just under two weeks till the cremation. In that time I would wake up in the morning and I would be absolutely freezing cold like shaking and shivering. And it was October. It wasn't like mid- winter. And I would blast up the heating. When someone else was in the house I would realize it it was like a sauna. It was actually a bit embarrassing and had to like you know turn it down and like open some windows and Robin actually hated being cold and he would have been in the morg in a refrigerated drawer that whole time and again I think it was my sense of temperature that was kind of on the same wavelength as where I didn't consciously think of where he was but I was feeling freezing cold. So it was looking back it was things like that that were coincidences absolutely but then over time and I'm talking a couple of years I could ask for specific signs and get them sometimes at first it would take a while and then it became like it would happen that day I could ask a question in my head and get an answer. I mentioned having you know sort of again being at the brink of my sanity having to question things. I was experiencing something called thought insertion which um in psychiatry is one of the symptoms of schizophrenia. It's when you have a thought in your head that you know isn't yours. So I was experiencing that really vividly. But can you imagine experiencing that and at the same time being a psychiatrist that is is saying right Tara you do realize you are having like a psychotic symptom. And so in my research, one of the things I realized that maybe, you know, if you're going through grief and you don't know the things that I know, you can't articulate to yourself that grief in many ways is like psychosis. It's changing the levels of neurotransmitters in your head. It's changing the electric electric and chemical like signaling in your head. I just have so much empathy for people that that have to go through that and don't have the wherewithal or the resources that that I did. Do you think one needs to cultivate their ability to see signs? Do you think it's like going to the gym? Totally. Totally. I It took me years. Um, and like I said, I believe it took him years as well. Um, so yeah, I I say it's like learning a language, but you're right. It's like going to the gym. And what does one need to do in that gym to grow their sign muscle? Well, it always starts with believing, right? Yeah. Um, do you think that's what one of the big issues in terms of being able to access these other dimensions or dynamics is most people just don't believe in it? So, I wouldn't I'm not even sure if I'd say most people. I'd say a lot of people don't believe in it. Or they secretly do, but they're scared to talk about it cuz they think people ridicule them. Yeah. Cuz I don't know. My my brain my brain feels like I need to have the scientific evidence of things for me to accept them because I think sometimes I worry that if I don't have scientific rigor around my beliefs then I would I'm susceptible to believe anything and I'll believe the spaghetti monster at the bottom of the garden and I'll believe you know every religion in the world and every and everything and then I'm unanchored and then I blow around like a plastic bag in the wind and then I have no orientation. Yeah. So I think okay rigger is the basis of my beliefs. I have to have some sort of scientific evidence. I know you do. Yeah. Um, it's not to say I'm not open-minded because I've had my mind changed so many times in my life that one would be dumb now to not be open-minded and to not listen. I agree with you about rigger. I completely agree with that. My entire career has been based on that. But I just, you know, I was pushed up against a wall. So, I had to think differently. And I think the question I pose to myself is is what if you had to think differently. So um the psychologist Carl Jung talks about um when he talks about the collective unconscious he talks about those basically three main things that all humans experience which is birth, life and death. And so we have this common experience which is actually part of our inherited gene and brain structure. Um so everyone who's ever lived will experience those things. But if we look at ancient wisdom, for a start, we are made of the carbon and hydrogen and oxygen and nitrogen that came from the big bang. So we're all made of the same thing. Our ancestors lived in the cycle with nature. I think us actually having broken our connection to nature is a huge part of why we're so disconnected and unhappy. So if you think of the life cycle of a salmon for example, it you know it goes through its life cycle and eventually its bones contribute to the phosphorus on the um floor of the forest. So it never really goes away. Um in many other ways our ancestors re